My years as a McKinsey management consultant taught me
to solve problems using a structured problem-solving method.
To this day, I use aspects of
this method as a foundation for data science problem solving.
In this section, I will introduce several tools for structured problem-solving.
These will help you break down a problem into sub-components,
that can be addressed strategically in the course of a data science project.
The first of these is structuring hypothesis-driven projects using the MECE Framework.
MECE stands for mutually exclusive, collectively exhaustive.
When you are specifying the component parts of a problem,
have you done so in a way that your specified components are independent?
That is, they do not overlap.
If so, we say they are mutually exclusive.
Moreover, have you specified all possible components?
Do the components collectively cover all aspects of the problem?
If so, we say that it is collectively exhaustive.
Using MECE as a guiding principle helps to
structure problems in a clean, comprehensive way.
When structuring your problem,
you break the problem into components.
Those components can then be broken into sub-components and so forth,
until you have actionable items at the very lowest level.
This exercise can be represented using another problem-solving tool; the issue tree.
The issue tree can serve as a problem-solving map,
that will guide your data science project.
Examples of issue trees are included in the note section of this lesson.
Once you have your issue tree and the problem is broken down into its component parts,
you need to prioritize your efforts towards the most valuable areas of examination.
To do this, you can invoke the Pareto Principle or 80/20 rule.
The 80/20 rule dictates that the greatest amount of
value tends to come from a small subset of the possible effort.
In our context, we invoke the 80/20 rule
by identifying the areas that we should focus on,
that are most likely to bring
the greatest impact towards solving the data science problem.